foreign
last time we came here there was a couch
there was a table
let's go on
no that doesn't matter this means any
quickly don't take long
shallah
to reward
whatever efforts we have put
through this blessed month of Ramadan
we ask him to forgive our shortcomings
our sins and to accept from us all
my brothers and sisters in Islam tonight
or this morning
the lecture is titled
the effect of the Quran
in the life of a Muslim
or in our lives because most definitely
the Quran
not only does it have an effect on the
believer but it also has a powerful
effect on a disbeliever as well
every disbeliever that accepted Islam
in one way or another it was because of
an heir
because of a Hadith because of a
teaching in Islam that came from the
Quran isn't that right
every single disbeliever that accepted
Islam
came into Islam and the reason was an
heir
one Ayah
a word in an air
and this is enough to prove to us
that the Quran has a powerful effect
on the hearts
and why not since this is the word of
Allah
the word of Allah
the word that Allah
and jibril would take this word from the
arush
and he'll travel down
through the paradise
all the way until he reaches the heavens
which are the skies then he travels
through the seven Skies
then he comes all the way down until he
reaches
and then
he mounts his heart
and he delivers the Ayah to him Allah he
says
what Surah is that in
he would he would descend unto the heart
of the messenger
and he would give him this Quran
so there is no doubt Quran has an effect
on each and every single person's life
and we are in the Blessed month
of Ramadan
and the Quran is something special in
Ramadan there is no doubt we all know
this Allah he says
it's the month in which the Quran was
revealed Allah says
in Ramadan and that's another mention of
the Quran and Ramadan together
he says
we sent it down in a blessed night that
blessed night is once again this is the
third time now in the Quran we see a
mention of the Quran and Ramadan
together
foreign
not only money but in knowledge and
advice and whatever it is that he gives
the people of goodness Quran
and he was most generous in Ramadan when
jibril would visit him and study the
Quran with him
once again in the Hadith we find the
relationship between Ramadan and the
Quran
this is what jibril would do this is the
activity he would do with the Messengers
mean
to teach to study the word you there is
it comes from
Dar rasa
and this is an actual it's a machine
it's called a mid Ross
they used to get the uh
the wheat seeds and they boost they
would put it between two stones
and then they would turn the machine
around in a circular motion and what it
will do it would crush the stone it
would crush the seed the the stones
would crush the seed the wheat seed in
between the stones and it would become
powder that in Arabic is called a midras
right so you there is who meaning he
would study with him the Quran
in detail
or you there is because of the alif in
the middle you there is it means that it
is coming from two sides two parties
meaning jibril would recite
would recite back
but anyway the idea is that in the
Hadith there is a mention of Ramadan and
the Quran so now we really know and
we've established and it's firmly
grounded within our hearts and our minds
that there is an intricate relationship
between the Quran and a firm
relationship between the Quran and the
Blessed month of Ramadan
and during Ramadan
the obligation is to fast
ing of course from the greatest desires
on Earth
what is the greatest desire on Earth do
you know ah
no a woman that is thinking about a
woman at two o'clock in the morning
anyone can help us
food
a person and if you're starving and we
put food they put a woman what are you
gonna look at
food food is the greatest desire on
Earth
it's enough to know that the reason
foreign came down to Earth was food
this is the greatest desire on Earth
food and drink
people eat and drink more than they have
relations with women and this is even if
a person was married or he wasn't
married
right so food is the greatest of desires
and
and during the day
we're being taught
that it is an obligation a command from
Allah to keep away from the greatest of
desires on Earth
why
of course there are many reasons
so that you can be aware and conscious
of Allah to say to yourself and to learn
that if I am supposed to keep away from
that which is halal then I'm definitely
supposed to keep away from that which is
Haram
these are the lessons that you're
learning through Ramadan because Ramadan
is a school
but above the list
when you're fasting
the body
has been deprived
of nourishments to it
food and drink
so the body is starving it's deprived of
all of that
and the second part that makes you up is
a soul so you have a body and you have a
soul
the body is starving the body is fasting
it can't eat it can't drink it can't
enjoy anything keep away from all of
that
now the soul has a chance to rise
the soul has a chance to rise
and the Soul has a chance
to discover
new limits and new experiences this is
why the fasting person in the Quran was
referred to as what there's a special
name for the fasting person in the Quran
who knows
what's the common word between the two
swords Allah describes the fasting
person we follow it huh
foreign
that's what I was told
Ali
what's the other
continue
language
foreign
are the fasting people
but the word it comes from
literally means tourism
that's what it means a tourist Isaiah
the idea is that when the body is
deprived of food and drink and sexual
relations
the soul has a chance to be a tourist
the soul has a chance to travel and you
know a tourist when a tourist travels
with his body to another country what do
people like doing as a tourist try the
new food in that country
enjoy the unique experiences that
country offers and so on that's what a
tourist does when he's there with his
body in a new country that he's never
stepped footed he likes to discover new
places caves mountains valleys borders
oceans whatever it is
it's the ID for the soul now that the
body has been caged from its greatest
desires
the soul has a chance it has a chance to
be a tourist and just like a tourist the
soul now is going to discover new
relationships with Allah it's going to
discover new relationships with the
Quran the Quran is going to have a great
effect on a soul during the month of
Ramadan as a person is fasting Allah I
tell you this
if you notice from your own self you do
this own experiment for your own self
when you read Quran during a day in
which you're not fasting is it the same
as reading the Quran during a day in
which you're fasting wallahi for the one
who's noticed this it is not the same
reading the Quran when you are not
fasting is a different experience to
reading it when you are fasting
when you're fasting and when you're
hungry
and when you're understanding what
you're reading this is a different level
and so this is why during this month of
Ramadan
as we are living its days it's all Quran
during the day or at night Quran or
we're here for
right it's all about the Quran in
Ramadan well there are people that have
already
finished the Quran Allah how many times
there is someone I know in lakemba he
finishes the Quran every two days
and he's an old man
except from him
every single Ramadan he finishes the
Quran in two days
Allah
people around the world how many times
have they read the Quran the idea is
this is the month of Quran right
wherever you go everyone's got a
relationship with someone's listening
someone's reading someone's asking
someone is asking how do I read do I get
reward if I read the Quran in English of
it everyone is concerned for the Quran
right this is the month
now so the idea is this is the month of
Quran
and there is no doubt that at the end of
the day we want to ask a big question
the bigger question that we're supposed
to ask
is what what effect did the Quran have
upon you
during this entire month of Ramadan
we're coming towards the end now
all this month and all the Quran you
read and all the Quran you heard
is there one heir
that touched your heart
is there one area between you and
yourself you can say that this affected
me
this is the real question when it comes
to our relationship with the Quran
Ramadan
not the questions that people usually
ask
people ask always related
questions and they avoid the spiritual
type of questions which is the actual
purpose of the Quran people are asking
uh what's the reward for reading the
Quran or can I read the Quran in English
how about transliteration can I stand
and hold the must-have and read all that
that is good we need to teach people
need to know what's hello
but above all these above all this the
quest the real question is
which in the Quran
that you read or you heard or you came
across
that had a powerful impact on you
changed the way you now talk to people
or it changed your behavior
or he changed your attitude
or maybe it changed your perspective
about this worldly life
or you changed your understanding about
Allah's mercy and forgiveness
already increased in your good thought
of Allah during a moment of Calamity and
difficulty
this is what the Quran does
at the end of the day the Quran is a
book of guidance
this is what it is you know people that
have memorized the Quran
often would continue to read the Quran
and they say I have a word then I got to
read
why so that I never forget it
but the whole Quran is more than this
it's more about I'm reading so I don't
forget
I'm reading so that I can retain what I
have memorized
we read the Quran so that we are Guided
by its ayat
forget your memorization and I'm going
to forget and so on
don't get busy with this
the matter is when we read the Quran
ultimately we're reading it because
every Ayah is a direction it's a road to
Allah
it increases in our guidance how many
times over and over in the Quran refer
to the fact that the Quran is guidance
from the very beginning
this book there is no doubt in it
a great guidance
for the for the righteous
and do you notice something
what is the purpose of fasting in the
Ayah of Allah
fasting increases
at the beginning Allah is saying the
only people that will benefit from the
guidance of the Quran
you see that
fasting is increasing your taqwa
and those that are going to benefit from
the guidance of the Quran
so every day you're fasting
your taqwa is increasing you should be
able to absorb the Quran even more
and you're supposed to extract guidance
and wisdom from the Quran even more
because fasting puts you on a path of
taqwa
for the people that are fasting
needs to be a question with each and
every single one of us which I attached
your heart Allah Quran he says
um
once again Allah calling out to mankind
informing them and telling them that
within this Quran there is guidance
Allah
he says
a Quran has come down from your lord
book and it guides the one who is
seeking Allah's pleasure it guides this
is what the Quran does it guides
so what is the Ayah that changed
the way you talk the way you behave your
attitude something about Allah there
should be an heir
and I have 10 minutes left I'm going to
share with you something personal so
that we can implement the fury that I've
been speaking to you about
every single year
and this is since four or five years ago
I made it uh a mission of mine and I
share this in the purpose that inshallah
you'll be able to navigate this and move
along with this kind of approach
every single year for the last five
years
I say that I want to listen to the Quran
in Ramadan
and I want to
monitor
which Heir in the Quran
really touches me in a way that the
other Ayah did not
every single year I do this
and I actually enjoyed this now for the
last three years because the last three
years I haven't been in Australia so I
haven't prayed Imam anyway
I've been LED so I pray behind and
there's an Imam and I've actually
enjoyed it
because it gives me a better chance now
to listen and to see and engage with the
Earth I'm talking to you like this
because I'm thinking majority inshallah
there's a relationship with
students here the next Generation
program on memorizing the qurano may
Allah
but have this in your mind
so let me share with you this e
h
that yeah I would not be wrong to
describe what it did to me in the same
manner
had on him
but I'll tell you first job what
happened to him he walked in it was
about Maghrib time and he entered Makkah
and he was still a careful a disbeliever
he entered Makkah
and he heard the Nabis
Imagine This
and he heard reciting
from
themselves
or did they create the heavens and the
Earth because if humans created Heavens
in the earth and that means case solve
them that means they created themselves
but of course it was none of these
possibilities which keeps us with the
fourth possibility and that is the
creator but the idea is this
foreign
he said my heart was about to fly out
Anna I always know this narration but I
don't know what does it mean that his
heart was about to fly out
until what I experienced at the
beginning of this month with an air I
heard
perhaps his heart was about to fly out
out of excitement and joy and happiness
maybe that's the missing part that I
never came across
because
perhaps it answered the most difficult
question in his life
and that is who created us
and he was a cafe and right afterwards
he accepted Islam
so no no doubt to me when I read this
Hadith
his heart was about to burst and fly out
of happiness and joy in celebration of
Allah's word for the guidance that one
Ayah to ayat brought into his life and
changed his life dramatically until the
day he died
and I was in Makkah
and we're praying on the roof
and this is an a of course for for a
person who has memorized the Quran reads
the Quran you hear these every single
day
but this time I heard an air
in such a way
I had never ever heard it before
I could say that my heart was about to
burst and fly out of happiness
and joy
yeah I wanted every and I I wanted to
look around me and said do you
understand what Allah just said did you
hear that message
but this is a message that needs to
travel the entire globe everyone needs
to know about Messiah and right now now
they need to know about it
and that Ayah was
he said
foreign
why did it connect with me especially in
this month
because in this month Ramadan
I received
an abundant amount of calls and missing
messages
from many people that wanted to find
their way back to Allah
very unusual
at least for me I've never experienced
anything like this in this amount
message calls I see someone someone
he doesn't know the word Toba but what
he's speaking about is Toba but that's
how far away from Islam he is
he says that we want to pray and and uh
and and and you know like forgiveness
insha Allah he doesn't know the word
he said what's that repentance
repentance I go back to Allah
and Implement his laws and he said
that's it
he doesn't know the word Dover
is there a solution he's asking is there
a ways to cannot do anything
and this is why this Ayah because this
Ayah is exactly what these people need
and what we all need
foreign
anyone who comes to you believing in our
ayat
meaning anyone who comes wanting Allah
the one who believes in the ayat of
Allah and he's coming to the messenger
why is he coming
he wants Allah
he wants the paradise he wants Mercy he
wants forgiveness
doesn't matter what this situation is if
he comes to you with a ton of sins
if he comes to you with a life of
heedlessness
if he comes to you from the club
if he comes to you from the bar if he
comes to you from the from from wherever
it is
at least we're learning as well we're
learning anyone that is in the position
of a dawah
listen to what Allah would be saying now
anyone who comes he wants Allah look at
the word
you see the word
a similar word in Arabic let's use this
attack and then that comes in the Quran
right but the difference is that Atta
the difference between Atta and
is that Atta Look it's even said easily
at uh but it means more effort right so
this is it it's implied within the word
Atta is a is a lazy kind of coming
right that's what Atta is it's like kind
of a person is is just rolling very easy
effortless
she is a person that comes with effort
and passion an eagerness
he wants Allah he wants the afterlife
he's looking for something to to clean
him from his sin he needs a solution no
why is
if these people come
and they believe in Allah but they've
been far away from Allah
you know what Allah wants them to he
the first information Allah wants them
to know
say to them peace be upon you
this is Allah
saying to the one who's rushing and
coming
Allah's first thing he tells him is
peace be upon you
safety for you is security for you
means don't worry about your sins don't
worry about your heedlessness don't
the main condition is you come
you need to want Allah you need to go
down that path and travel in that
direction
how how exciting is this
when you know this is Allah's message to
the one who comes wanting Allah no
matter what his situation was Allah is
greeting him
not me or you Allah is greeting him
you know now if someone wants to come
and repent I don't I don't want to say
assalamualaikum brother I I Satan listen
Allah is sending Islam to you right this
moment
because it is
and then in addition to this Allah wants
you know Allah wants him to know
something
Allah has obligated mercy upon himself
that's the second piece of information
Allah wants you to know
why tell you something
you only don't don't sit here and think
he's talking about people that are in
clubs tonight look now ask us we need
Allah's Mercy more than anyone else
forget everyone think of yourself
and you're doing a majority of you at
decaf right ethical why why he that's
why white to three o'clock we need to
stop praying three o'clock
for the last seven nights food smell you
keep up with all this stuff no problems
why why
don't you want Allah's mercy and also
when you entered the Masjid what did you
say when you entered the Masjid
because you want Allah
Allah's mercies yeah it's found in here
foreign
for yourself you're the one that needs
the mercy
you
each and every single one of us
wait in the month of Mercy we want the
Lord's Mercy
Allah's Mercy
is that he accepts whatever little Deeds
we have
Allah's Mercy is that he forgives us
all our shortcomings and flaws and
whatever it is that we have
Allah
Allah has obligated this upon himself
and nothing is obligatory upon Allah
except what he makes obligatory upon
himself
this is Allah's promise
Allah doesn't break his promise
but how good is this Allah this is an
exciting message in the Quran in Surah
and to know that came down seventy
Thousand Angels carried it when it came
down
there's there's Mercy in this Surah
there is absolute joy in every reason to
celebrate in the Surah especially this
Ayah here
and
I'll tell you something what we're
learning he's the attitude of a diary
and those who want to work in this field
of preaching and calling others to Allah
learn from what Allah teaches us
your approach with people no matter how
they are what condition they're in your
approach is
your approach is that you want them to
know things that are positive
in his mercy and his forgiveness that's
what you need to learn look it even
happened with the Nabis
sahaba were once sitting and they were
talking then entered upon them and he
said to them
he said to them if you know what I know
you would have cried a lot
and you would have laughed a little
home their mood changed entering
if you only knew what I knew
he would have laughed a little you would
have cried a lot and he walked off but
you're going to stay in the same mood
you were in he's been worried depressed
sad what happened
was sent by Allah
he said to him said to him that Allah
says
why are you despairing my servants
because what he said came across as
hush
so the sahaba's mood changed
so then
walked back out the very moment and saw
those companions
and he said to them
meaning do of the Good Deeds as much as
you can
and follow my Sunnah as best as you can
and good news congratulations to all of
you who went to the paradise huh that's
a message that's uplifting
the mood came back to also happened they
were happy
yeah when I tell you Allah says
meaning find every Ayah in the Quran
that will restore some life and
happiness and joy in the people
this is the path of a diary this is the
path of prophets
my brothers and sisters in Islam the
worst Among Us
is the one who's given up of the mercy
of Allah
Among Us other
s Mercy
Allah
look how smart they were shoes
because they're smart you should learn
about what they used to do when they
used to think about Allah's Mercy one of
them
yeah look what he did
he wants Allah's Mercy
and he's desperate
he doesn't want to leave this world
their life except that he is convinced
Allah will have mercy upon him
so he goes through the Quran he comes
across the first Ayah Allah says
uh
uh Allah says
whoever repents after he has wronged
himself and then he does righteous
actions and he rectifies his State
through the good deeds
then Allah is
forgiving merciful so he says Allah I'm
that person that has done the wrong and
I've repented after so Allah grant me
your mercy
then he says and if I'm not worthy of
your mercy through that Ayah
then he says then o Allah you have said
you have said that you grant your mercy
to the Believers and Allah I'm a
Believer
so bestow your mercy upon me then he
says but if I'm not worthy of your mercy
because I don't qualify
from this area
they know Allah you have said
my Mercy has encompassed all things
and I'm something
so grant me your mercy because I am
something
then he said and if I do not qualify for
your mercy because I'm not worthy of it
and I'm not from this shape that
deserves it or worthy of it
then this is a Calamity and a disaster
and you o Allah said
you said that whoever
falls into a calamity
and what worse of a Calamity then the
fact that you're not included in shape
for Allah's Mercy indeed it's a Calamity
and you said whoever Falls in a Calamity
and says
[Music]
then such people upon them are abundant
prayers of Allah and mercy
so grant me mercy from that though
people
in the past
they knew how to work with this Quran
this is the scholar this is
this is a person who understands that
the Quran is more than just I have to
read so that I can retain the ayat in my
mind and not forget them
more than this
is the month of Ramadan
very quickly we finished
how
do I actually
how do I benefit from this Mercy Allah
says now he says
whoever
anyone who does an evil deed out of
ignorance
what does it mean to do a deed out of
does that mean you knew about the sin
did you knew about it being a sin or not
okay listen Allah said anyone who
commits a sin knowingly is ignorant
anyone who commits a sin knowingly is
ignorant what's he ignorant about he's
ignorant about the greatness of Allah
his ignorance about the greatness and
the power and the might of Allah
otherwise if you knew the greatness of
Allah no one would sin
say even if you knew It's a Sin from a
filthy perspective and you committed it
you're still ignorant
because if you do a sin and you actually
didn't know it's a sin in Islam that's
not a sin you don't have to repent from
anything because you did not score any
bad deed
you understand for this Ayah he's
speaking about a person who committed an
evil sin Soo and
and he knew it was a sin
badi
see the word that's Allah's Mercy
meaning and a while later
yeah Allah gave him life extended his
life then he made a decision later on in
life
he repented
he did this a million times and he
repented once it's good enough
foreign
and he followed his Toba
with righteous actions meaning he
rectified himself you know the good
deeds in Arabic in in the Quran are
called one
is
which means to fix something
you fix it why because the righteous
these they fix your Affairs they fix the
broken Soul the Broken Heart the damaged
things that are inside they fix him our
prayers our fasting is all the good
deeds that we know they fix us so they
called
so he repents and then he does the
righteous Deeds so that he can Rectify
his State before he meets Allah
for that person Allah is most forgiving
and bestows his mercy upon him
what a beautiful message
to bestow his mercy upon us all
I ask him
that he grant us forgiveness of all our
sins before we end Ramadan
from the fire
and we ask him that he grant us the
highest levels in the paradise
foreign